well howdy there internet people it's Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
the Mandarin Cameron Diaz what they have
to teach us about the current situation
we're in talk a little bit about moral
distance as well I'm going to discuss
some fictional works I'll lay out a
little bit of the plot enough to get the
point across but I'm not going to ruin
these things so if you want to read or
watch them after this you'll be fine the
first thing we're going to talk about is
the Mandarin it's a story about a poor
Portuguese guy and the devil comes to
him it's like hey during that Bell this
guy you've never met half a world away
this Mandarin guy living in China he's
done for and he's rich and you're gonna
inherit all of his wealth now of course
the guy rings the bell the story
wouldn't go on if he didn't and
predictably trouble follows now if
you're sitting there right now going man
that sounds a whole lot like Cameron
Diaz movie call it the box it's because
the box is based on button button which
is a mandarin parable which comes from
the Mandarin which is actually alleged
to be ripped off from something else all
this stuff is very derivative but the
plot is there the reason it is universal
and has gone on for hundreds of years is
because it's true
it's true if you're not familiar with
the box a short overview of that box
shows up a little bit later guy shows up
to explain it there's a button in the
box you push the button you get a
million dollars and somebody you've
never met you don't know well they're
done for the story wouldn't go on if the
button didn't get pushed so he comes
back picks up the box they're like what
happens next well I got to give the box
to somebody else
somebody you've never met that doesn't
actually ruin the story if you haven't
seen I understand that movie was not
critically acclaimed I actually think
they did a really good job of adapting
it because it is nothing like button
button but carries a pretty similar
message anyway the point to all of this
is we're all going through this right
now in both of those stories they were
being judged
we may not being be being judged in the
same manner but we're being tested
tested to see if we can cooperate tested
to see if we can think of those other
than ourselves or if we are willing to
push that button and reopen and most of
the people advocating for it are doing
so for a whole lot less than a million
dollars and that's the thing even though
it's distant even though it's somebody
you've never met you may not know you're
still putting them down for money would
you do it in any other situation or is
it because you can use the authority of
government to justify it
well they reopened so it was hokey you
know you're putting people at risk and
yeah you may be one of the young healthy
ones those that don't have much of a
risk that's fine I get that but would
you do the same to an elderly person or
a compromised person and vulnerable
person if you had to use a knife would
you charge the same probably not
we've got to stop letting those in power
divide us we have to start cooperating
we have to stop letting them convince us
to kick down those who are more
vulnerable than us because I understand
there's a whole lot of people think this
is the end of the world and everything
this is nothing this is nothing this is
a dress rehearsal for some of the stuff
we have coming down the pike if we don't
change if we don't start to cooperate
this is not thanks I know that it
doesn't seem like much because there's
that diffusion of responsibility for it
you got a guy in a lab coat telling you
it's okay right
Milgram reference a few anyway
only it's not only half code it's a suit
and tie somebody at a podium telling you
that it's alright would you do it with
your own hand if the answer is no you
should probably stay home you should
probably do your part
you should probably cooperate because
this this is nothing in comparison to
say climate change and I understand you
don't believe in that either but just
like this was nothing there's gonna be a
whole lot of people that aren't around
anymore to tell you you're wrong
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night